.TH FOCALIZEC

.SH NAME
.B focalizec
\-\-  The FoCaLiZe compiler
.UR http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/
(http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/)
.UE

.SH VERSION
Focalizec version 0.9.0.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B focalizec
.RI [ options ]\ [ source\ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B focalizec
compiler is a compiler for the FoCaLiZe language. It takes a
source file as input and compiles it to
.B OCaml
and/or pre-\fBCoq\fP
and/or \fBDedukti\fP
source files, according to selected options. The default is to generate both
target languages. During the compilation process, the compiler also generates
a specific object file (with suffix \fI.fo\fP) for the sake of separate compilation.

The generated
.B OCaml
code can directly be passed to the
.B Objective Caml
compiler to finally get an executable linking all the generated files
of your FoCaLiZe development.

The generated pre-\fBCoq\fP source files get suffix \fI.zv\fP. They must be
processed by the
.B Zenon
automated theorem prover to get a pure
.B Coq
source file (with suffix \fI.v\fP).
The FoCaLiZe specific command
.B zvtov
is specially devoted to this task.

Hence, the generation process is the following:
    file.fcl --
.B focalizec
--> file.ml and/or file.zv
    file.ml --
.B ocaml/ocamlopt ...
--> executable program
    file.zv --
.B zvtov
--> file.v
    file.v --
.B coqc
--> file.vo

.SH OPTIONS
Options are :
.TP
.B -coq_older_8_4
Enables
.B Coq
code generation for versions of
.B Coq
< 8.4.
.TP
.B -dot-non-rec-dependencies \<dirname\>
Dump non-let-rec dependencies of the species present in the compiled
source file. The output format is suitable to be graphically displayed
by
.B dotty
(free software available via the
.B graphviz
package). Each species will lead to a dotty file into the argument
directory. Files are names by
.I deps_
+ the source file base name (i.e. without path and suffix) + the
species name + the suffix
\fI.dot\fP.
.TP
.B --experimental
Reserved for development purpose. Never use it, since invoking the compiler
with this option may lead to unpredictable results.
.TP
.B -focalize-doc
Generate documentation. Still experimental.
.TP
.B -i
Print the interfaces of the species present in the compiled source
file. Result is sent to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-I \<dirname\>
Add the \<dirname\> directory to the path list where to search for
compiled interfaces. Several
.B -I
options can be used. The search order is in the current directory first,
second, in the standard library directory (unless the
.B -no-stdlib-path
option is used, see below), then in the directories specified by the
.B -I
options in their apparition order on the command line.
.TP
.B -impose-termination-proof
Make termination proofs mandatory for recursive functions. If a
recursive function doesn't have its termination proof, then the field
will be considered as not fully defined and no collection will be
possible based on the species hosting the function. Default is to
disable this option: if a recursive function does not have any
termination proof, a warning is printed during compilation when trying
to make a collection from this species.
.TP
.B -methods-history-to-text \<dirname\>
Dump the methods' inheritance history of the species present in the
compiled FoCaLiZe files. The result is sent as plain text files into the
\<dirname\> directory. For each method of each species a file is generated
wearing the name made of
.I history_
+ the source file base name (i.e. without path and suffix) +
.I _
+ the hosting species name + the suffix
\fI.txt\fP.
.TP
.B -no-ansi-escape
Disable ANSI escape sequences in error messages. Default is to
use bold, italic, underline fonts when reporting errors, to make
the messages easier to read. This option removes all the text
attributes and should be used if your terminal doesn't support ANSI
escape sequences or when compiling under
\fBemacs\fP.
.TP
.B -no-coq-code
Disable the
.B Coq
code generation. Default is to generate Coq code.
.TP
.B -no-ocaml-code
Disable the
.B OCaml
code generation. Default is to generate OCaml code.
.TP
.B -no-test-code
Disable the test code generation.
.TP
.B -no-tests
Disable the tests.
.TP
.B -no-stdlib-path
Do not include the standard library installation directory in the
library search path. Rarely useful and mostly dedicated to the
.B FoCaLiZe
compiler build process.
.TP
.B -pretty \<file\>
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Pretty-print the parse tree
of the
.B FoCaLiZe
file as a
.B FoCaLiZe
source into the argument file.
.TP
.B -raw-ast-dump
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Print on stderr the raw AST
structure after parsing stage.
.TP
.B -require-plugin \<plugin name\>
Require application of plugin <plugin name> on the
.B FoCaLize
source file.
.TP
.B -scoped_pretty \<file\>
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Pretty-print the parse tree
of the
.B FoCaLiZe
file, once scoped, as a
.B FoCaLiZe
source into the file \<file\>.
.TP
.B -stop-before-coq
When
.B Coq
code generation is activated, stops the compilation process
before passing the generated file to
.B Coq.
The produced file is ended by the suffix ".v".
.TP
.B -stop-before-zenon
When
.B Coq
code generation is activated, stops the compilation process before
passing the generated file to
.B Zenon.
The produced file is ended by the suffix ".zv".
.TP
.B -verbose
Set the compiler verbose mode. The compiler generates the trace of
steps and operations it performs. Mostly used for debugging purpose; for people
interested in understanding the FoCaLiZe's compilation process, can also
explain the elaboration of the model during the compilation.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the
.B focalizec
version number.
.TP
.B \-version
Print the
.B focalizec
full version (version, sub-version and release date).
.TP
.B --where
Print the binaries and libraries installation directories.
.TP
.B \-zvtovopt "<options>"
Set options to pass to the
.B zvtov
tool. This latter is anyway always called with options
"-zenon (path to Zenon) -new" in head. It is possible to use this option to
pass options to
.B zenon
but be careful of correctly quoting options to make sure they are interpreted
by their respective recipient.

For instance, telling
.B zenon
to change its maximum memory size can be done in the 3 equivalent ways

   focalizec -zvtovopt '-zopt '\\''-max-size 2G'\\' foo.fcl

   focalizec -zvtovopt "-zopt \\"-max-size 2G\\"" foo.fcl

   focalizec -zvtovopt "-zopt '-max-size 2G'" foo.fcl
.TP
.B \-help
Display this list of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display this list of options.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software, distributed under the licence found in
the LICENSE file in the root directory of the distribution.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B zenon
(1)
.B zvtov
(1)
.B focalizedep
(1)
.B ocamlc
(1)
.B ocamlopt
(1)
.B coqc
(1)

The
.B FoCaLiZe
user's manual (http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/eng.htm)
(french version at http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/fra.htm).

.SH AUTHORS
François Pessaux <Francois.Pessaux@ensta-paristech.fr>
Pierre Weis <Pierre.Weis@inria.fr>
.P
This manual page was written for
.B focalizec
version 0.7.0.
.P
Laboratoire d'Informatique de l'université Paris 6,
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (2012)
