.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" \$Id: focalizec.man,v 1.10 2009-08-18 15:58:40 weis Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH $(uppercase $package) 1 "$(the_short_date)"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B $(package)
\-\-  The $(focal) compiler
.UR http://$(focal).inria.fr/
(http://$(focal).inria.fr/)
.UE

.SH VERSION
$(capitalize $package) version $package_version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $package
.RI [ options ]\ [ source\ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B $package
compiler is a compiler for the $(focal) language. It takes a
source file as input and compiles it to
.B OCaml
and/or pre-\fBCoq\fP
source files, according to selected options. The default is to generate both
target languages. During the compilation process, the compiler also generates
a specific object file (with suffix \fI.fo\fP) for the sake of separate compilation.

The generated
.B OCaml
code can directly be passed to the
.B Objective Caml
compiler to finally get an executable linking all the generated files
of your $(focal) development.

The generated pre-\fBCoq\fP source files get suffix \fI.zv\fP. They must be
processed by the
.B Zenon
automated theorem prover to get a pure
.B Coq
source file (with suffix \fI.v\fP).
The $(focal) specific command
.B zvtov
is specially devoted to this task.

Hence, the generation process is the following:
    file.fcl --
.B $focalizec
--> file.ml and/or file.zv
    file.ml --
.B ocaml/ocamlopt ...
--> executable program
    file.zv --
.B zvtov
--> file.v
    file.v --
.B coqc
--> file.vo

.SH OPTIONS
Options are :
.TP
.B --dot-non-rec-dependencies \<dirname\>
Dump non-let-rec dependencies of the species present in the compiled
source file. The output format is suitable to be graphically displayed
by
.B dotty
(free software available via the
.B graphviz
package). Each species will lead to a dotty file into the argument
directory. Files are names by
.I deps_
+ the source file base name (i.e. without path and suffix) + the
species name + the suffix
\fI.dot\fP.
.TP
.B --experimental
Reserved for development purpose. Never use it, since invoking the compiler
with this option may lead to unpredictable results.
.TP
.B -focalize-doc
Generate documentation. Still experimental.
.TP
.B -i
Print the interfaces of the species present in the compiled source
file. Result is sent to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-I \<dirname\>
Add the \<dirname\> directory to the path list where to search for
compiled interfaces. Several
.B -I
options can be used. The search order is in the current directory first,
second, in the standard library directory (unless the
.B -no-stdlib-path
option is used, see below), then in the directories specified by the
.B -I
options in their apparition order on the command line.
.TP
.B -impose-termination-proof
Make termination proofs mandatory for recursive functions. If a
recursive function doesn't have its termination proof, then the field
will be considered as not fully defined and no collection will be
possible based on the species hosting the function. Default is to
disable this option: if a recursive function does not have any
termination proof, a warning is printed during compilation when trying
to make a collection from this species.
.TP
.B --methods-history-to-text \<dirname\>
Dump the methods' inheritance history of the species present in the
compiled $(focal) files. The result is sent as plain text files into the
\<dirname\> directory. For each method of each species a file is generated
wearing the name made of
.I history_
+ the source file base name (i.e. without path and suffix) +
.I _
+ the hosting species name + the suffix
\fI.txt\fP.
.TP
.B --no-ansi-escape
Disable ANSI escape sequences in error messages. Default is to
use bold, italic, underline fonts when reporting errors, to make
the messages easier to read. This option removes all the text
attributes and should be used if your terminal doesn't support ANSI
escape sequences or when compiling under
\fBemacs\fP.
.TP
.B --no-coq-code
Disable the
.B Coq
code generation. Default is to generate Coq code.
.TP
.B --no-ocaml-code
Disable the
.B OCaml
code generation. Default is to generate OCaml code.
.TP
.B -no-stdlib-path
Do not include the standard library installation directory in the
library search path. Rarely useful and mostly dedicated to the $(focal)
compiler build process.
.TP
.B --pretty \<file\>
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Pretty-print the parse tree
of the $(focal) file as a $(focal) source into the argument file.
.TP
.B --raw-ast-dump
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Print on stderr the raw AST
structure after parsing stage.
.TP
.B --scoped_pretty \<file\>
Undocumented: mostly for debugging purpose. Pretty-print the parse tree
of the $(focal) file, once scoped, as a $(focal) source into the
file \<file\>.
.TP
.B --verbose.
Set the compiler verbose mode. The compiler generates the trace of
steps and operations it performs. Mostly used for debugging purpose; for people
interested in understanding the $(focal)'s compilation process, can also
explain the elaboration of the model during the compilation.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the
.B $package
version number.
.TP
.B \-version
Print the
.B $package
full version (version, sub-version and release date).
.TP
.B --where
Print the binaries and libraries installation directories.
.TP
.B \-help
Display this list of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display this list of options.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software, distributed under the licence found in
the LICENSE file in the root directory of the distribution.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B zenon
(1)
.B zvtov
(1)
.B $focalizedep
(1)
.B ocamlc
(1)
.B ocamlopt
(1)
.B coqc
(1)

The
.B $focal
user's manual (http://$(focal).inria.fr/eng.htm)
(french version at http://$(focal).inria.fr/fra.htm).

.SH AUTHORS
François Pessaux <François.Pessaux@lip6.fr>
Pierre Weis <Pierre.Weis@inria.fr>
.P
This manual page was written for
.B $package
version 0.0.1.
.P
Laboratoire d'Informatique de l'université Paris 6,
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique ($(this_year))

\"  LocalWords:  UE OCaml Coq fo Caml pre zv Zenon zvtov fcl ocaml ocamlopt vo
\"  LocalWords:  coqc TP dirname graphviz deps $focal $focalizec $focalizedep emacs
