TH FOCALIZEDEP

.SH NAME
.B focalizedep
\-\- Dependency generator for FoCaLiZe.
.UR http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/
(http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/)
.UE

.SH VERSION
focalizedep version 0.7.0.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B focalizedep
.RI [ -I\ lib-dir ]\ [ source\ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B focalizedep
command scans each FoCaLiZe source file argument and checks for
external compilation units references. The dependencies found are then written on
standard output in the format suitable for the Unix
.B make
utility.
This set of dependencies ensures the correct compilation order for all the
FoCaLiZe source file arguments. It also provides proper and minimum
recompilation when a file is modified.

Typical usage is:

focalizedep
.I options
*.fcl > .depend

where .depend is the usual (hidden) file that records the set of dependencies
for all the source files of the current directory. Typically, this file is included at
the end of the Makefile for the directory using an include make directive:

include .depend

Since the standard library belongs to the FoCaLiZe package internals, and
since it is compiled once and for all at installation time, all the
dependencies upon the standard library are omitted.

.B focalizedep
not only handles \fI.fcl\fP files:
it also generates dependencies for the entire set of files the
.B focalizec
compiler accepts. In particular, \fI.ml\fP \fI.cmo\fP
\fI.cmx\fP \fI.zv\fP and \fI.v\fP files are properly treated.

.SH OPTIONS
The only available option is:
.TP
.B \-I \<dirname\>
Add the \<dirname\> directory to the path list where to search for
compiled interfaces. Several
.B -I
options can be used. The search order is in the current directory first,
then in the directories specified by the
.B -I
options in their apparition order on the command line.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software, distributed under the licence found in
the LICENSE file in the root directory of the distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B focalizec
(1)
.B make
(1)

The
.B FoCaLiZe
user's manual (http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/eng.htm)
(french version at http://FoCaLiZe.inria.fr/fra.htm).

.SH AUTHORS
François Pessaux <Francois.Pessaux@ensta-paristech.fr>
Pierre Weis <Pierre.Weis@inria.fr>
.P
This manual page was written for
.B focalizedep
version 0.7.0.
.P
Laboratoire d'Informatique de l'université Paris 6,
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (2012).

\"  LocalWords:  UE OCaml Coq fo Caml pre zv Zenon zvtov fcl ocaml ocamlopt vo
\"  LocalWords:  coqc TP dirname graphviz deps FoCaLiZe focalizec focalizedep emacs
